# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Writing a program that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable can be achieved by following a few key principles and best practices. For example, code can become more readable and easier to understand by providing the user/reader with clear and concise comments that explain the code’s purpose or intended functionality. Further, complex logic can be broken down and code can be made more digestible by utilizing proper naming conventions, indentation, and being very descriptive when choosing variable and function names. The CRUD Python module from Project One in this course, which was used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two, is a great example of a maintainable, readable, and adaptable program; the CRUD Python module made it so other programs, such as the database created in Project Two, could allow users to perform create, read, update, and delete operations on an available data set. The CRUD Python module is extendable to programs varying in size and complexity, making it an incredibly versatile tool for application development. In addition to promoting reusability and scalability, the CRUD Python module can increase team productivity and efficiency as developers can redirect their time and efforts to other aspects of a program’s development.


# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested first, trying to understand their unique scenario. This is important as a computer scientist as gathering user requirements and understanding business goals helps keep a project on track and aligned with an organization’s vision. I accomplished this by referring to the Dashboard Specification’s Document, which included the necessary functionality of the dashboard and a prototype of the dashboard layout, and by analyzing their sample data set. Once I was able to understand Grazioso Salvare’s expectations for the program and the type of data they are working with, I was able to determine the best approach for creating their dashboard. The difference in my approach between this project and past assignments is the strong focus on optimizing query performance. For Grazioso Salvare, it was essential for the dashboard user to be able to filter through data using specific search parameters, so I made sure my code specifically addressed this need. Techniques or strategies I’d use to create databases to meet client requests in the future include referring to specifications documents (as done for this project) and creating data models to help visualize development outcome (i.e., a conceptual data model, which would outline the entities, relationships, and attributes involved). 

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists are known problem-solvers. The work of computer scientists’ matter, especially to companies like Grazioso Salvare, as it can help streamline standard business processes and maximize an organization’s value. For example, computer scientists can help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, do their work better by offering modular and reusable programs such as the CRUD Python module, providing databases developed for efficient data storage and retrieval, and by ensuring data integrity and security. 
